# Automating the process of installing security updates on operating systems


Patching management in operating systems is an essential process to maintain the security and integrity of systems. It prevents system failures, outages, data breaches, unauthorized access, and system vulnerabilities from being exploited by unauthorized individuals. In cases where system vulnerabilities were exploited it led to damage to an organization's image or data, theft of sensitive data, theft of personal data or access to privileged information.  In many ways, affecting companies to whom a system belongs or the people the services are provided.

Due to the large number of computing assets and systems used in a company along with the high number of fixes and updates made available periodically, it is necessary to use an automated system or process for the effective installation and management of update packages on a server or software. Without an automated system or process for installing updates, this task is performed manually.  Errors and failures in the process execution can happen, as well failure in monitoring or validation of the installation of the updates.
In this research an automation process was developed for patching servers. It is capable of performing the installation and validation of updates on a server hosted on the AWS Amazon Web Services cloud. Infrastructure tools such as Terraform, public cloud services, and platform-as-a-service (PaaS) services were used. The solution will be configured to integrate the services of the AWS Systems Manager Patch Manager tool, performing a scan for servers eligible for patching using identification tags and it will update the operating systems according to a predefined policy. The process will take place in an automated way, without invention or the need for external approval.
	
With the implementation of the automation, it was possible to validate the effectiveness of the tool and effectiveness in the process of installing updates, resulting in increased security, reliability and possibly increasing systems availability. A high success rate was verified in the execution of automation for updates.  The average update time for a server was 5 minutes, and there was an average time of 3 minutes to scan servers eligible for update. After the installation of the updates the servers obtained the latest updates and bug fixes installed on the system, accordingly providing greater security and reducing risks in an organization or a company's systems. With the proper security updates, it is possible to obtain greater reliability, availability, reduce the risks in which a vulnerability can be exploited and generate losses for a company.
